Title: Where v0.16.0
Date: 2018-11-5
Category: Download
Tags: download, github, vlbi, where, there, beta
Summary: Download Where v0.16.0.

The source code of **Where** is available at
[GitHub](https://github.com/kartverket/where).

## Clone and update Where v0.16.0

The simplest way to download Where and do later updates is by cloning the Where
repository:

    git clone https://github.com/kartverket/where.git

With a cloned repository you can update to version 0.16.0 by doing:

    cd where
    git fetch origin
    git checkout tags/v0.16.0

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Download Where v0.16.0

If you prefer to download the source code as a zip- or tar-file, you can use the
following links:

+ [Source code (zip)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v0.16.0.zip)
+ [Source code (tar.gz)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v0.16.0.tar.gz)

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Changelog

Version 0.16.0 is a big update to [version 0.12.1]({filename}20180904_release_v0.12.1.md). Versions between 0.12.1 and 0.16.0 have been internal versions.

The following are the biggest changes since [version 0.12.1]({filename}20180904_release_v0.12.1.md):

+ Improved handling of vgosDb files.
+ New `obs` module for parsing observations and creating datasets.
+ Fix bugs in dependency testing.
+ Use a sparse matrix for phi in the Kalman filter to save memory.
+ Save automatically detected outliers to config file.
+ Fix bug in LOD estimation.
+ More options for EOPs.
+ Improved readability of estimation models.

> **Note:** The Where software is currently in Beta. There are still a few bugs
> in the analysis we are ironing out. We will also do some upgrades to the
> internal data structures used to store data that will break with the current
> ones. You should **not** use Where for any production level work yet. However,
> [let us know]({filename}pages/contact.md) if you are interested in using the
> software and we will keep you updated as it matures.

