Title: Where v0.12.1
Date: 2018-9-4
Category: Download
Tags: download, github, vlbi, where, there, beta
Summary: Download Where v0.12.1.

The source code of **Where** is available at
[GitHub](https://github.com/kartverket/where).

## Clone and update Where v0.12.1

The simplest way to download Where and do later updates is by cloning the Where
repository:

    git clone https://github.com/kartverket/where.git

With a cloned repository you can update to version 0.12.1 by doing:

    cd where
    git fetch origin
    git checkout tags/v0.12.1

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Download Where v0.12.1

If you prefer to download the source code as a zip- or tar-file, you can use the
following links:

+ [Source code (zip)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v0.12.1.zip)
+ [Source code (tar.gz)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v0.12.1.tar.gz)

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Changelog

Version 0.12.1 is a big update to [version 0.8.1]({filename}20180710_release_v0.8.1.md). Versions between 0.8.1 and 0.12.1 have been internal versions.

The following are the biggest changes since [version 0.8.1]({filename}20180710_release_v0.8.1.md):

+ Big update to [There]({filename}20180605_there.md), including separate tabs for timeseries and sessions, as well as support for keyboard shortcuts.
+ Wizard for setting up config files. It is automatically run when installing Where for the first time.
+ Where Runner can use master files to choose which sessions to run.
+ Always use official IERS names for VLBI sources.
+ Easier to customize the config library (not backwards compatible).
+ Tidy up timeseries dataset (not backwards compatible).
+ Fix bugs in calculations of LOD and sigma values.
+ Change format of dependency files, with the option of using file checksums instead of timestamps.

> **Note:** The Where software is currently in Beta. There are still a few bugs
> in the analysis we are ironing out. We will also do some upgrades to the
> internal data structures used to store data that will break with the current
> ones. You should **not** use Where for any production level work yet. However,
> [let us know]({filename}pages/contact.md) if you are interested in using the
> software and we will keep you updated as it matures.

