Title: The Where Software
Date: 2018-6-4
Category: How-to
Tags: where, there, vlbi, mit-license
Pin: True
Summary: Where is a Python Software package used for analyzing geodetic data.

## About Where

**Where** is a Python Software package used for analyzing geodetic data.
Currently, the software only supports VLBI data, but work is underway also for
other techniques. The Where software is made available to the geodetic
community as an open source,
[MIT-licensed](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) project.


## Getting Where

The latest release of Where is **version 2.1.2**. It can be
[downloaded through GitHub](where-latest.html). See
[Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## License

Where is developed at the
[Norwegian Mapping Authority](https://kartverket.no/en/) and made available
under an [**MIT license**](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/). The MIT
license is permissive allowing you to use, modify and distribute the software,
as long as copyright and license notices are preserved.


## Acknowledgement and Citing

If you are using Where for work or research, in presentations or as part of a
code or analysis project, we ask that you
[**acknowledge or cite** Where as appropriate]({filename}pages/acknowledging.md).


## Software Overview

For information on how to **get started** using Where, see the
[Quickstart]({filename}20230103_quickstart_v2.md) tutorial.

Where is built as a modular software so that it is easy to customize how the
analysis done, change which models are used, and even write new models. The
following describes some **key concepts** of the Where software.


### Pipeline

A **pipeline** is a description of a particular analysis. Currently, Where only
supports the VLBI pipeline which can analyze VLBI data. Through
[configuration profiles](#configuration-profile) the VLBI pipeline can be set up
to analyze different kinds of VLBI sessions, including R1/R4- and intensive
sessions.


### Analysis

An **analysis** is a pipeline applied to specific data. Typically, an analysis
is the result of running Where on one VLBI session. The product of an analysis
is a [dataset](#dataset) containing all the input and output of the analysis. In
addition, further products like sinex files, estimation parameters, maps etc may
be written at the end of an analysis.


### Configuration

Each Where pipeline has a **configuration** which defines the details of how the
analysis is done. Examples of configuration settings for VLBI include

+ which observation format to use (NGS or vgosDB)
+ how to clean the data before analysis
+ which site displacement models to apply
+ which reference frame to use for a priori station coordinates
+ which parameters to estimate

For each analysis, the pipeline configuration is copied and can be tailored to
the specific session that is being analyzed, for instance by specifying clock
breaks, or that observations for a given radio source should be discarded.


### Configuration Profile

In order to simplify configuring Where for different kinds of VLBI sessions,
several **configuration profiles** are defined. The default configuration for
VLBI is tuned for R1/R4 24-hour sessions. The same configuration does not work
well for intensive sessions, for example, due to there being much fewer
observations so that only a few variables should be estimated. This is supported
by using the `intensives` configuration profile.


### Dataset

Both input data and results from the modeling are stored in a Where
**dataset**. A dataset essentially consists of corresponding time series for all
relevant variables in an analysis.

A dataset can be explored interactively in the companion
[There]({filename}20180605_there.md) software. In addition, Where can transform
a dataset to other useful products such as SINEX files, estimated parameters or
maps quantifying the result of an analysis.
