Title: Running Where
Date: 2018-6-5
Category: How-to
Tags: vlbi, where, there
Summary: Use Where to run a VLBI analysis

**Where** is a geodetic software package, used for professional analysis of VLBI data.


## Running a VLBI analysis

To do an analysis with Where you only need to specify which analysis
[**pipeline**]({filename}20180604_about.md#pipeline) you want to run
(i.e. VLBI), as well as the **date** and any pipeline specific options. 
For VLBI analysis you need to specify **session_code**. See the 
[IVS observing program](https://ivscc.gsfc.nasa.gov/program/index.html) 
to find possible session codes. A basic Where command for VLBI is

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772

This command can be extended by setting any of the many configuration options
available for an analysis. Some of these will be described below. You can also
run `where --help` for a quick overview.


## Configuration

Every Where analysis is based on a
[**configuration**]({filename}20180604_about.md#configuration) which describes
in detail how the analysis is performed, including

+ which models are being used,
+ which version of each model that is being applied, and
+ which parameters are being estimated.

If you run Where like above - without specifying any particular settings - the
default configuration is used.

By using the `-E` or `--edit` option open the configuration in your
standard editor and change it:

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 -E

When you are happy with the configuration, save and close the configuration file the analysis will be executed.


### Other useful options

If you want to delete a configuration (and any analysis done) you can use the
`-D` or `--delete` option:

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 -D

To reset the configuration without deleting any of the previous analysis done,
use the `-N` or `--new` option:

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 -N

The same option can be combined with the delete option, to
immediately start a new configuration:

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 -D -N

Where tries to skip stages that have previously been processed and where none of the dependencies for
that stage has changed. This behaviour can be overridden using the `-F` or `--force` option.

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 --F

Then all stages will be reprocessed using the existing configuration.


### Configuration profiles

The default configuration for VLBI is tuned for analyzing R1/R4 sessions. To
make it easy to analyze other kinds of sessions you can create profiles. This is done by appending `__<profilename>`
to the configuration parameter that you want to change. There are example profiles created for intensive sessions
and VGOS sessions. Example on use:

    where 2020 1 9 -v --session_code=VO0009 --profile=vgos

## Comparative analysis

If you want to do several analyses of the same session (for instance to compare
different models etc), you need to mark the analysis with their own **ids**. For
instance,

    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 --elevation:cut_off=0 --id=zero
    where 2016 12 27 --vlbi --session_code=R1772 --elevation:cut_off=3 --id=three

This will run two Where analyses with different elevation cut-offs, stored with
the ids of `zero` and `three`.

## Running many analyses

To analyze many sessions at once, use the `where_runner` tool. It has the same
form as the regular `where` command, except that it needs two dates: The start
date and end date of the analysis (both inclusive).

    where_runner 2016 1 1 2016 12 31 --vlbi

The `where_runner` command does not need a `--session_code` option. It will run all
kinds of sessions that it finds. If you want to specify that only one or a few
types of sessions should be analyzed, you can still list them with the
`--session_types` option:

    where_runner 2016 1 1 2016 12 31 --vlbi --session_types=R,CONT

In this example, Where will run all sessions that are of type R1/R4 and CONT and skip all other session types 
it finds. Session type
in this context is a Where specific definition that refers to the first
part of the session code that consist of letters (and not numbers). Meaning a session with code **R1881** 
will have type *R* and a session with code **AOV031** will have type *AOV*.