Title: Where v0.7.2
Date: 2018-6-7
Category: Download
Tags: download, github, vlbi, where, there, beta
Summary: Download Where v0.7.2.

The source code of **Where** is available at
[GitHub](https://github.com/kartverket/where).

## Clone and update Where v0.7.2

The simplest way to download Where and do later updates is by cloning the Where
repository:

    git clone https://github.com/kartverket/where.git

With a cloned repository you can update to version 0.7.2 by doing:

    cd where
    git fetch origin
    git checkout tags/v0.7.2

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Download Where v0.7.2

If you prefer to download the source code as a zip- or tar-file, you can use the
following links:

+ [Source code (zip)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v0.7.2.zip)
+ [Source code (tar.gz)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v0.7.2.tar.gz)

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Changelog

Version 0.7.2 is the first public release of Where. The software consists of
three parts:

+ **`where`** is a command line program for analyzing geodetic data, currently
  only VLBI data are supported.
+ **`there`** is a GUI-program for interactively exploring the results of a
  Where analysis.
+ **`where_runner`** is a convenience command line program used for running many
  Where analyses.

See the [Quickstart]({filename}20180605_quickstart_v1.md) for information on how to get started
doing Where analyses.


> **Note:** The Where software is currently in Beta. There are still a few bugs
> in the analysis we are ironing out. We will also do some upgrades to the
> internal data structures used to store data that will break with the current
> ones. You should **not** use Where for any production level work yet. However,
> [let us know]({filename}pages/contact.md) if you are interested in using the
> software and we will keep you updated as it matures.

