Title: Where v2.0.0
Date: 2023-01-03
Category: Download
Tags: download, github, vlbi, where, there
Summary: Download Where v2.0.0.

The source code of **Where** is available at
[GitHub](https://github.com/kartverket/where).

## Clone and update Where v2.0.0

The simplest way to download Where and do later updates is by cloning the Where
repository:

    git clone https://github.com/kartverket/where.git

With a cloned repository you can update to version 2.0.0 by doing:

    cd where
    git fetch origin
    git checkout tags/v2.0.0

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Download Where v2.0.0

If you prefer to download the source code as a zip- or tar-file, you can use the
following links:

+ [Source code (zip)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v2.0.0.zip)
+ [Source code (tar.gz)](https://github.com/kartverket/where/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz)

See [Installing Where]({filename}20180606_install.md) for details on how to install
the software.


## Changelog

Highlights of difference between version 1.4.0 and 2.0.0

+ Support for the new VLBI naming convention
    + The directory structure and filename of the work directory is changed to be better aligned with the new naming convention for the input data files and the new master file format. This change breaks backwards compatibility with earlier processed sessions. As a consequence some dropdown menus in There are also changed.
+ New editor:
    + Reads SKED files to obtain information about how many observations that were scheduled for each station. The information in stored in the meta dictionary of a dataset.
+ Updates to There:
    + Added a new tool line called Selector. Multiple observations can be discarded at once by using this tool.
+ Several minor bugfixes

